For this next section we're gonna
talk about a lot of different visual
considerations, different things around
color and how people perceive websites.
And then we'll get into some really
cool modern DOME API's that let us read
a lot of user settings and
control our app experience accordingly.
So one of the first things I want
to talk about is color contrast.
And color contrast comes up in a number
of ways, mostly that there are a lot of
different impairments that affect
people's ability to see color.
And that makes it really difficult to
predict what colors will contrast well
together and
which ones will blur into each other.
It also can make it really
difficult sometimes to signify like
the difference between an error and
a success state.
If you don't have some additional helpers,
which we'll get into in a little bit.
But ultimately, it's really difficult to
tell just by looking at colors if they're
going to have high enough contrast or not.
Unless you're going with something
very stark like black on white or
white on black.
So there are all sorts of cool
tools that can help you with it.
One tool that you can just do is the
Lighthouse audit will actually look at all
the content on your page and
tell you if there are any contrast issues.
But if you're in the design phase,
another really cool tool in
this web contrast bicker.
And so the idea here is that you pick
a foreground color and a background color.
And they will tell you the contrast ratio,
but more importantly,
they'll tell you if they pass or
fail on a couple of different axes.
They'll tell you if they pass or fail for
small text if they pass or fail for large
text and if they pass or fail for text
differentiated from some kind of border or
interface like this here, this text input.
And so what's really neat about it,
the other axes sorry,
is that they'll tell you if you pass or
fail for AA compliance like we were
talking about with WCAG or AAA compliance.
So, if you have something really stark,
again, like just black foreground,
white background, that's got
a really high contrast ratio and
it passes across the board.
As you start getting into
a little bit more iffy territory,
like if you had a light gray
foreground and a white background,
it's got a very low contrast ratio and
it fails across the board.
But what's really interesting to me is
that a lot of times you'll end up with
something.
Let's see if I can find one
like this in the middle,
where you've got a reasonably
dark gray on white.
It's got a reasonable contrast ratio, but
it fails except in certain circumstances.
So for example, this 808080 against fff,
it's saying not good for normal size text.
It's okay for large text if you only wanna
be AA compliant and it is acceptable for
graphic interfaces like a grey border
around black text with a white background.
So it's kind of interesting for a number
of reasons because you start realizing
that color contrast is
a much bigger topic.
At least for me than I once thought it was
where I thought things were either too
similar or
different enough to be contrasted.
But it turns out that there's actually
a lot more to it where it depends
on the size,
it depends on the surroundings, and
it depends on how compliant
you're trying to be.
So this is a great tool.
I use it all the time in the design stage.
A lot of design tools will also give
you accessibility warnings, but
I just find this tool is very easy.
You can paste taxes in and
instantly get some info.
That's a really cool tool, chrome Dev
Tools, which I also teach a workshop on.
I'm a big, big fan of the Dev Tools.
They have a built in accessibility
color checker, which looks like this.
It's very neat.
It's showing you as you're in the color
picker, if the content that you're on
is accessible or
not in the same format, right?
Well CAG, its AA or AAA compliant,
what's the contrast ratio is.
The issue with this is that in order for
it to work, it requires that you
have a parent element with a background
and a child element with a color.
And if you don't have those, like for
example, if you just had a body tag with
both background and color,
it won't be able to pick up on those.
But so for here as an example,
if I open the Dev Tools,
I made a Dev that's here.
So if we take a look at it,
there's a Dev called dark.
And this Dev has a background of black and
then there's a paragraph inside called
light and that has a color of white.
And so from here since we meet
the criteria, if we go ahead and
we click on the little
box inside the color.
It'll open up the color picker and we can
see that the contrast ratio information is
here it's AA and triple AAA compliant.
And then you can actually kind of drag
it around in real time and see, okay, so
this against black would be bad but
as we get lighter and lighter,
okay, that's double a compliant
with all the way to white.
Okay, that's AAA compliant.
So this might not work for
all of your use cases.
Again, if you just have one
element with both they won't work.
But, in certain situations when you're
designing a child element inside a parent
which has a background color.
These can be really handy as well and
they're all getting the same
information though.
What the contrast ratio is,
is it AA compliant, is it AAA compliant.
The last thing I'll say
on color contrast and
this is a big one I see when I
do consulting work especially,
this is like one of the biggest
ones that make it into production.
Is that oftentimes we'll do
front end validation on forms.
So before you submit the form, it'll check
to see, did all the fields get filled out?
Does the email look like an email
all of these things right?
And if they fail,
they will often make the border red.
And if they pass,
they'll make the border green.
And then it'll say something like, please
correct your mistakes and submit again.
But the difficulty here is that those
colors might not be distinguishable for
certain people with certain disabilities.
And then they will have no idea
which fields are failing or
which ones are succeeding.
So that's why color itself and I like
this WebAIM word and color is not used
as the sole method of conveying content or
distinguishing visual elements.
Meaning it's totally fine to use red for
error and green for success.
But you should put some text in there or
a label or an icon or some way for
folks to know an asterisk
next to the errors.
Some way for folks to know
without just relying on color,
where they need to interact and
which ones are done.
Any questions on color,
color contrast using those tools, or
the basic ideas behind those tools?
Awesome, yeah, again, just calling
them out as I see like ones that I've
seen a lot color on forums is like a big
one that I've run into many times,
that has been caught in audits.
Another one is just the world of visual
impairments is a lot bigger than I once
thought it was.
There's this really neat
extension called no coffee,
which simulates various
visual impairments.
Unfortunately, they used to
have a chrome version, but
the chrome version has been discontinued.
So if you want to use it now,
you'll have to use it for Firefox.
But it's really neat and
it can really kind of help you understand
how different people see your website.
So I'm going to switch
over to Firefox here,
where I installed the plugin and
I'm just going to open it up.
And so it does a lot of cool things.
You can mess with certain
things directly like ghosting.
So let me set this back to normal and
you can mess with something like take
ghosting and start expanding it and
you'll see that the letters kind
of start shifting from each other.
You can also kind of simulate
certain blockages that people have.
So like what, a glaucoma.
Sorry, make that a little
better central blockage or
a corner blockage all these different
things so you can kind of simulate things.
I always really like this because it helps
see how like some nuanced things like for
an example I think like looking
at some of these ones with,
okay here we go with like floaters or
something like that.
It can help me really
understand that certain
chaotic designs can be very
distracting for some people.
The other thing that's really important
is for folks that have a limited range of
view that you keep like
content next to each other.
I have this really interesting anecdote
again from a conference that I spoke at
where one where one of the other speakers
that talked on accessibility had low
vision.
So she wasn't blind, but
she did need assistive technologies
to help with a lot of things.
And she was talking about how she had
recently been learning how to code using
a popular coding site.
And the issues simply was that as she
would type in things, the feedback loop so
like errors, compilation errors,
on the other side of her monitor.
And she has a limited field of vision,
so for her she's looking at this it he,
she's typing stuff, he's hitting run,
she's seeing nothing change.
Surgeons have given up on the platform.
It's only weeks later that she's
complaining to a friend that they realize
what's going on,
which is just that the related information
was just actually physical
distance too far away.
She wasn't able to see that feedback loop.
So it's kind of interesting thinking
about some of your UX structure.
And for folks with limited field of view,
and I also think it comes back
into this thing of we're not just dealing
with people with perfect vision and
people with no vision.
We're dealing with this really wide range,
this like ever growing population of folks
with some sort of visual impairment.
And so these things like using big font,
good color contrast,
keeping like things near each other,
can be a really big help.
I know this one is a little bit more on
the design side than the development side
but it's really good.
And I think as an accessibility developer,
it's really good to be able to give your
design and
product folks that kind of feedback.
Say hey, I'm a little bit worried that
these things are a little far away or
the fonts too small or
the colors are not contrasting enough.
And yeah, this kind of the proximity
notifications that I was talking about
before where keeping like
things together can help.
This is also like, like I was mentioning
that this helps folks who have low vision
it also helps people with
neurological disabilities.
It honestly helps everyone for
the most part,
I think keeping things close together.
I think is another great curb cut example
back to the first slide where you do these
things to make things easier for
people with disabilities and
it ends up making it easier for everyone.
So kind of a big giant win.
Any questions on those kind
of visual impairments?
I know it's a lot more of a gray area
of the sense of it's hard to it's not
a simple set of rules, right?
I'm not like this needs to be this and the
sort of color contrast is a set of rules.
The rest of the stuff I think
is just good food for thought.
Just something nice to think about.